<!-- Automatically generated by spec-parser v2.5.0 on 2024-08-10T18:46:28.607668+00:00 -->
<!-- SPDX-License-Identifier: Community-Spec-1.0 -->

# NamespaceMap

## Summary

A mapping between prefixes and namespace partial URIs.


## Description

A namespace map allows the creator of a collection of serializable Elements
to suggest shorter identifiers ("prefixes") for specific namespace portions
of Element IDs. This map is used in SPDX content serialization to provide
a more human-readable and smaller serialized representation of the Elements.

For details of how NamespaceMap content is to be serialized please refer to
the [Model and serializations](../../../serializations.md) clause
and the various serialization format-specific files within the
[spdx-3-model repository](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/tree/main/serialization).

Namespace maps support a variety of relevant use cases such as:

1. An SPDX content producer wishing to provide clarity of their serialization
    of an SPDX 2.X simple style collection where all content is newly minted
    and a single prefix-namespace is used. The consumer of SPDX content wishes
    to preserve the name space mapping provided by such a producer.

    In this case, the consumer would record the namespace map prefixes in the
    NamespaceMap such that subsequent serializations could reproduce the
    prefixes / namespaces in the native serialization format.

2. An SPDX content producer wishing to maintain consistent prefix use and
    understanding across multiple different serialization formats of the
    produced content.
  
    For example, an SBOM producer wishes to share/publish the SBOM as JSON-LD
    and XML. The producer can specify the preferred prefix mappings in the
    native serialization format using information from a single NamespaceMap
    accessible local to the producer.

3. An SPDX content consumer/producer wishing to maintain consistent prefix use
    while round tripping from SPDX content received, deserialized,
    modified/extended in some way, and then reserialized in the same
    serialization form.

    In this case the prefix-namespace mappings utilized in the content are
    transformed from the original native namespace/prefix into the in memory
    NamespaceMap then transformed from the NamespaceMap back into the resultant
    serialization native namespace / prefix format.


## Metadata

`https://spdx.org/rdf/3.0.1/terms/Core/NamespaceMap`


| | |
|---|---|
| Name | NamespaceMap |
| Instantiability | Concrete |






## Properties

| Property | Type | minCount | maxCount |
|---|---|:---:|:---:|
| [namespace](../Properties/namespace.md) | xsd:anyURI | 1 | 1 |
| [prefix](../Properties/prefix.md) | xsd:string | 1 | 1 |



## All properties

| Property | Type | minCount | maxCount |
|---|---|:---:|:---:|
| [namespace](../../Core/Properties/namespace.md) | xsd:anyURI | 1 | 1 |
| [prefix](../../Core/Properties/prefix.md) | xsd:string | 1 | 1 |



